early in the Vlog I was so insecure
about what I was posting this is really
embarrassing to to talk about but like I
want to ask you to break down this Vlog
talking to camera is a science of its
own screw your writer block when I see
people using really crazy creative fonts
I like roll my eyes have you ever gotten
more than a million doll a month off of
YouTube I think that I'm 51% business
guy and 49% like a creative guy I'm
going to go in there and tear this
meeting to Pieces how hard was that on
your marriage yeah there's a couple
regrets 368 can you tell me what's
status of that I'm [__] toast like
I'm done another big project you took on
was the documentary about David do I
wanted to give David the greatest
opportunity I could to speak for himself
he didn't do a good job it's probably
the most conflicted thing in my career
that I've ever experienced what in God's
name is happening outside of my office
can you just explain what what happened
there I think what's so frustrating
about this conversation is that you're
not allowed to say that you're not
allowed to say you're very good at what
you do
[Music]
before we get into this interview with
Casey make sure you subscribe and ring
the notification Bell because I've been
seeing the stats 97% of you guys who
watch this show are not subscribe and we
just shot our next episode we have so
many breakdown videos coming up Studio
tours you're not going to want to miss
what's coming up so hit that button it
means the world and now let's get into
it Casey dude thanks for coming on man
happy to be here happy to be here yeah I
am so excited to do this I feel like
when I started this show you we're on my
Mount Rushmore of guests to get and I
can't believe I'm here and this is
happening well I appreciate that means a
lot I want to talk about the turning
point when you started the Vlogs because
before that I was pulling the numbers it
took you seven years to get 300,000
subscribers then you started your daily
Vlog 800 Vlogs in a row and then in 18
months you had 10 million subscribers
what was like the thought process behind
starting the daily Vlog especially at
that time I mean you were hundreds of
thousands of dollars in debt like you
balancing a to yeah I was building my
technology company and I was really
going for broke with it um very
financially broke with it but it was
like Candace your wife was paying your
share of rent is that right yeah it
pretty embarrassing that times all lie
to her like oh man I forgot I'll get you
the money tomorrow kind of thing which
came first Casey like you daily vlogging
or was it you wanted to start beam so
you're like I need to make cont bring to
it um you know being my my technology
startup was initially uh the concept
revolved around Google class if you
remember that from back in the day it
was sort of about what you see through
Google Class via this app and if we're
all wearing these things we all get to
see everyone else's
perspective and I remember being like
you know all make a movie about Google
Glass or bring a lot of attention to it
and I made this was after we had raised
the first round of funding and we're
building this company and I made that
video I think it was a really good
Google Glass video and it did like
200,000 views and I was like hell yeah
this is great like this will bring a lot
of attention eventually and then I was
like wait like one video about my my you
know my app that gets to 200,000 views
like I don't know that that's going to
move the needle a whole lot and then I
was like What if I make a series about
what it means to have a startup but then
I started making the video and it's like
six dudes sitting in a room writing code
is not compelling it's just not
interesting so that's when like the
camera started to turn on me um and I
would have to seek interestingness every
day to tell those stories and you know
my company was certainly a big part of
that narrative for the first you know
year or so
but um it wasn't the narrative I became
the narrative and that was not
necessarily intentional that's crazy I I
I never realized that because I you kept
it a secret for a while what the app was
like what you were doing with it you
started the Vlog and mentioned it just
in spurts here and there but would you
say like you know you wanted to get
traffic to the app and that was a big
reason why you did the Vlog I mean
Absolut to bring attention to my company
was a very big part of the motivation
behind the Vlog
I just could have never predicted how it
manifests you know like I was very much
so picturing like like the first Vlog
episode was because I was going on a
vacation for my birthday and I was like
that's great content and then Tuesday
I'm back in the office so I'll make a
couple videos about the vacation and
then I can really shift to making it
about being in the office and I remember
coming in the office being like oh [__]
I remember when one of my programmers
was like very politely was kind of like
shush me and I understand it being
disruptive like we're trying to get
we're like we're doing we're in the
middle of a Sprint and I'm in there
talking to camera and I was like oh man
this is not how I anticipated it and
also it's like I can pitch what my
company is in 15 minutes and I wanted to
make a video every day that's I was like
okay let me pull back then and make it
about something else today tomorrow the
next day but I'm still going into work
so I start peppering that in and then
it's like I don't want to say what the
app is because it's changed five times
it was a Google glass app and then it
became this and uh the premise for the
app the mission statement never changed
but how it would manifest was changing
all the time it's software MH so it it's
clear that like if I bring along the
audience for that ride it's a lot of
like here it's a cheeseburger nope it's
a hot dog nope it's actually a donut and
it's like I didn't know how to tell that
story if I was being told that story be
frustrated so it's like instead let just
talk about that I'm doing this and I'll
explain what this is when I know what
this is and then as we approach to like
I could share it with the world that I
was trying to be as explicit with it as
I could and like as we launched the app
almost all the videos were about the
launching of the app and I made a lot of
videos that were like updates on where
the app was but slowly like the company
started to struggle and then you deal
with like the the challenges and the EB
and flow of building a business like
that as volatile as a a venture backed
software development company and I had a
really tough time pulling
interestingness from it the day we
launched so easy everybody's fired up
yeah but like then new users dries up
and I'm looking it's like okay you know
what I like go to Sarah our money girl
and I'm like stop paying me because if
we keep giving me a salary we're not
going to be able to pay the program like
that's not good content yeah I mean
maybe that's great content by reality TV
show standards but I didn't want to
share that if I was one of my employees
and I saw that that would make me feel
terrible wow Casey to set context when
you started your Vlog how many employees
did you have at be I mean we well on day
one of the Vlog probably I think we had
four that was after W it was already a
thing and you're CU oh I had done a full
like they call it a friends and family
round but it was basically a preed round
of um half a million bucks that I raised
and that was when Matt became my partner
and co-founder and then we had a I think
we had four full-time programmers and
one part-time programmer at that point
um and it ramped up pretty quickly from
there yeah
it's so interesting because I think
there's a lot of startup Founders out
there people trying to start a thing and
they're like he let me get attention let
me become a Creator let me just make
content what advice do you have for them
because it's very hard to balance the
two because most office work is boring
and the product is iterating so much as
you said like how like would you
recommend they crack the Cod because
like obviously vlogging takes up so much
time I don't know the answer to that I
would say Ask Gary
V I don't know and I don't think about
that um when I look back at it and I
think it's a very fair question on your
part um and I don't mean to sound like
have false humility about it I don't it
was very deliberate what I was doing but
it was it was done like I I there was no
master plan I had no idea it would
manifest the way it did I didn't know
the Vlog would become popular the way it
did I didn't know you know how the app
would go I know I knew none of that so
it was just me like looking at the
resources at my disposal there's also a
big part of it too and this is really
unsexy or maybe even embarrassing to to
talk about but like I'm a pretty good
business leader I'm very good at leading
a vision I'm very good at fundraising
I'm very good at knowing what we need to
make um I'm a terrible manager uh I've
never written a line of code in my life
so we have all these employees uh and
I'm not coding and then Matt is man my
partner is managing like what what do I
have to offer this company and
especially like when we were struggling
it's really like what do I have to offer
and it's like well maybe the only thing
that I have to offer right now it's
meaningful are these videos so like that
was a part of it there's nothing sexy
about that from my perspective then and
I just share that with you to sort of
counter the fact that like you know you
say what advice would I give to people
it's like no I didn't have some I'm not
some genius that came up with this idea
like a lot of it was just pieces falling
into place and there was a lot of sort
of um soft underbelly to it that was not
glamorous or exciting or or sexy but it
was actually like pretty scary and
you know motivated by insecurities and
things like that what were some of those
scary moments with with
beam I mean look like financially it was
really scary really scary you know like
the last couple month like I cut my S I
took no salary and paid for most things
out of pocket until we raised our first
like our first real round of financing
like that that initial 400,000 it was I
say $500,000 I think it was
$450,000 that was enough to hire a a
team but I wasn't paying myself then I
also had no income so I was using credit
cards and stuff like that that was
really scary financially and then on the
other side of it after we had raised $4
million two years later the money was
driving up very very quickly and I
remember like cutting my salary in half
the most salary I ever paid myself was
after we raised 400 $4 million I paid
myself
$200,000 and yeah and annually and I
remember that lasted for like six months
and then I was like cut it down to
$100,000 and then like 3 weeks later I
was like kill my salary completely like
give me no salary so you're just doing
the math you like if I keep like that
money could be going to one of my
employees and um you know it's my
responsibility that they get paid it's
no one's responsibility that I get paid
those moments were really scary um but
you know then YouTube AdSense turned on
yeah and it's like you know when you're
doing 600 or 700,000 views a month and
AdSense is
like negligible you know it's in the
tens or hundreds of dollars and then
that spikes and all a sudden it's tens
of thousands of dollars a month it's
like I I had a real income stream from
the Vlog that I was able to like aim
that hose of money at all this crazy
terrifying debt that I had acred to
start this company um so that was like
you know that that gave me like that
became a motivator and it was like it
felt like something was working because
of that when it comes to Brand deals you
have a way of saying F you to sponsors
and making something even better for
them that they end up liking like two
videos that come to mind that I've
watched of yours Casey is the video you
made for Fox Studios for Walter midi
like where you took the budget for that
sponsorship and you're like you know
what I'm not going to make a promotion
for the movie Walter midi I'm going to
go and go on a trip to the Philippines
and donate it to those in need how do
you go about doing that and there's
another example I want to talk about but
like I find so many creators are like
when we're talking with Brands they're
like here are the talking points here's
the product like do this do that and the
creative doesn't get as many views
doesn't perform as well but you've been
able to again like politely and and
strategically kind of say F you I want
to do this starters I never ever say F
you um or you know what I mean like
maybe metaphorically but metaphorically
but yeah mostly it's about it's a
combination of one demonstrating that
you can actually make something
better um and you have to show that
that's about actions not about
words and then I think it's about having
some sort of uh historical precedent for
it you know like before I ever was able
to talk like you know the example that I
know you want to get to it's a bigger
story a bigger there's a lot more to
talk about but like make it count for
Nike I think what's underappreciated
about that video is I deal with Nike to
make three videos for the fuel band and
the first two videos had significantly
more emphasis and significantly more
budget and when it came time to make the
third video I called up Alex Lopez at
Nike and I was like look I want to do
this differently I want do something
that's way off the book I'm way
different from what we initially
scripted I I won't spend any more money
um but I think I can make something much
better and he was like okay just like
don't screw me over don't leave me in
Lurch but if you want to run wild with
the creative go for it and I had earned
that cuz I delivered to videos I wasn't
I didn't say hey man go [__] yourself
I'm taking off with the money I was like
I'm going to do this um and I remember
showing him the video and he was like I
don't know what this is but I know it's
good and for people who don't know to
give cont the video is you took the
money and you just went on a trip with
your buddy and you documented yourself
running sure across the name of the
video and the the tagline for the
product was make it count it was about
like making everyday count and this is
before inspo porn was a word um and we
really did it uh it wasn't sort of a
quasi Instagram inspiration like it was
a like it was a real Adventure that like
two guys that were in their 20s like two
friends um so I think it's like there's
a romance in the sort of Herz sagian way
of characterizing it as like [__] Z men
take zoney and run and the reality is
it's something much more thoughtful and
it's like you know I recently had a
brand deal that did work out um I made
the video for the client and they were
like we need you to change this this and
this and use put in these talking points
and I just you know plainly was like no
I'm not going to do any of that and I
said to them I was like why did you hire
me like I have 1,200 videos online and
in none of them do I have a voice over
where I'm talking about the nuances of a
product like I've never done that who
did you think you were hiring
um and not I wasn't saying that in a
punitive manner I was saying that in a
genuine like that was not I'm not asking
rhetorically like if what you wanted
were numbers and explicit product
endorsement there are so many creators
that have a reputation that can do that
that will be more accurately and and
fairly communicated I don't do that so
I'm not a good fit for that you know you
don't hire a tennis player to you know
be a running back and you know all of
that is is is kind of earned like you
have to get there so there's like yeah
like the the Hunter Thompson Rebel of it
all that spirit is alive and well but
behind that is something that's much
more considered and and thoughtful and
at the end of the day always try to
deliver you know um the Walter midi
video was like they were nervous but
they gave me the green light before I
did that and they were really excited
about it and Ben Siller loved it and I
think it really communicated a message
that he certainly was was in parallel to
what he was communicating with his
script and with his movie so it wasn't
such a gross digression it was just also
done at a time when that was way outside
of the box of of thinking it was pretty
radical um but it was what something I
knew that I could do well you know one
last caveat I'll add to that is like the
irony of it is when I was a traditional
TV commercial director I was not good I
remember like being hired by ESPN to
make a commercial for BMX bikes purely
mediocre I made like a shaving
commercial for Gillette totally average
I wasn't good at that and they were
hiring me because my YouTube videos were
good I was not a good commercial
director So eventually I got to the
place where it's like look just let me
make my Youtube videos for you and
that'll and we can make something good
together so you know it's it's like
everything else it's like earn it are
there other early examples real quick I
want to give you a sneak peek at one of
my upcoming videos which is a studio
tour with binging with babish where I
toured his multi-million dollar kitchen
studio and he showed me how he makes his
videos but I want to show you how I'm
using spotter Studio which is a sponsor
of today's video to improve my ideas my
thumbnails and titles okay I'm typing in
the video concept and boom it's already
giving me all sorts of great ideas for
titles but here's where it gets really
cool spotter studio also generates a
bunch of thumbnail Concepts and let's
say I want to tweak it I could do it
with just the click of these buttons to
get different variations let's say I
want to be more realistic I could toggle
between this option or let's say I want
to be more sketch based so I could use
it more as a storyboard spotter even
helps me generate those and comes up
with these clever little details like
this fire in the corner of the thumbnail
to hook more people that I wouldn't have
really considered otherwise and here's a
thing that I haven't seen in any other
product like this I can actually ask
spotter Studio to give me these
thumbnail and video ideas based on other
outliers across YouTube that have
already performed well so it'll look at
other top studio tour videos and give me
ideas based on that or I can have it
give me ideas based on my own outliers I
mean there's so many more features that
can help brainstorm ideas study and
filter outliers plan your projects and
more and you could get it all for free
for 60 days a 60-day free trial to
spotter Studio that's 30 more days than
you usually get if you didn't use my
link so just click my link below and
seriously I find myself coming back to
spotter Studio more and more because
it's that good all right so check out
the link get 60 days free and now back
to the video I think like you said like
once you have a precedent you could
point to that you could you know talk to
Fox Studios and be like hey for this
this video for Walter midi look what I
did for Nike I want to take I think the
best example is Nike because before I
ever worked before I was ever paid a
cent from Nike I made fake Nike
commercials you just type in Nike Swoosh
into Google and then you right click
save the swoosh and then you make a
commercial and you put that at the end
and I did that it was just like if you
remember way back in the day there was a
whole bunch of money um poured into
something called the truth campaign and
it was an anti cigarette smoking
campaign I always wanted to do a
commercial for them cuz they were so
good so we just made a bunch like we
made one where we had a cigarette and it
was like slowly burning down and like
the ashes went flaccid and as the ashes
finally like went fully limp it was like
cigarette smoking causes erectile
dysfunction truth they never paid us for
that we just did it but I did that
enough that like this amazing guy named
Julian Khan was like hey I love your
these fake Nike commercials I'm hosting
an event for Nike in the East Village do
you want to come will we make us a video
and I was like totally and he was like
okay I only have a budget of a couple
hundred bucks and I was like great and I
made a video about biking in the city
and I put Nike's logo at the end now he
had paid me and the money came from Nike
so technically that made me someone who
had made a Nike commercial I wasn't
legit at all but I drew that and then I
told everybody on planet Earth that I
directed Nike commercials and like there
was a indirect but there was a line
between that to then have a Nike call so
like in the most you know Pudo
inspirational [__]
[__] podcasting terms it's like you
know if you want something manifest it
but that's what that looks like that's
what manifesting something looks like is
if you're not willing to do the work
without getting
paid a hundred times then chances are
you're never going to find the
opportunity to do the work and get paid
for it and that's how you know that's
how was able to you know get the thumbs
up to make make it count that's how I
was able to get the thumbs up to make
the Mercedes campaign or the Walter midi
campaign is cuz I did it a hundred times
and then another hundred times are there
other examples of things you did unpaid
that ultimately got paid a lot for sure
I mean our HBO show our HBO show was we
made there was an early show I'm looking
around my office because somewhere in
here we maybe I moved them we had the
original invite for we made a show for
cable access called niep brothers and it
was absurd it was absurd this was like
2003 it was absurd but the guy that
owned the cable news the C Public Access
channel was like I really like your
stuff let's do something together a
wonderful man named Tom Scott who I
remain friends with to this day and I
was like oh we want how about we make
that show and he's like okay and he was
like let me know how much money you need
and Van and I like did some back of the
napkin math and we're like we need
$20,000 a month because there's two of
us that's $10,000 a month e but we also
have the studio and then we have to pay
taxes so it's was like the most middle
class amount of money you could ask for
that accounted zero for Budget the
budget to make a video and he agreed to
that so we knew for a year we'd have
like $2,000 a month coming in for the
whole year it's a huge deal we I've
never had reoccurring income and that's
when we made the HBO show and we poured
everything we had into that and we could
barely make rent that whole year um and
we're making it for this guy and we
didn't have a plan for it we're like
well is this going to go on cable access
what do we do with this and then that's
the show we ended up selling for 2
million bucks and it says at the
beginning of that show in HBO production
it was not it was like two knucklehead
brothers and a very benevolent Visionary
guy who was willing to write a check but
then picked up on it and then HBO bought
it where did you put it out first for
them to see it or did you guys film a
pilot and we showed it to smart people
that we didn't know know smart people
but Tom Tom Scott the guy who who you
know bankrolled it he was like I have
friends I went to college with Doug
Lyman who's had made the movie swingers
that was like my favorite movie it's
still one I was like no way and he was
like I want to show it to him and he
came by and I remember he watched it and
all I said was this is good and then he
left and I was like what the [__] does
that mean and then he told some people
and they came by and oh we like like
this and he showed this very famous
producer produced another one of my
favorite movies um her name was
Christine Bichon she produced the movie
kids have you seen kids hard to find
that movie um and she was like this is
great I think I can help get this out
there and we brought her on as a
producer so the idea that I'm working
with a hero of mine just cuz she
believed in the work that she saw and
she was the one who brought it into HBO
I remember she called us and she's like
HBO likes this and we're like What does
that mean
and then yeah and that's how it happened
in a recent video your brother van like
talked about like why that HBO show
ended he said uh quote he like realized
that half the job of an artist is to
make the work and the other half is to
get the work out into the world and he
talked about how he he thought van was
the artist and he was like oh Casey was
quote to sell you know his wees to kind
of be the agent the art dealer like
handle the business side can you tell me
about that because I was actually
surprised to hear it's like oh there's
that division of labor you handling the
business side where you're now such an
celebrated creative and artist and don't
take meetings and like what do yeah I
mean look that video that van made is a
tremendous movie van by the way is my
favorite YouTuber I think he is he's the
best YouTuber I've ever seen um when it
comes to creativity I've never seen
someone like him and he's always been
sort of an idol of mine creatively but I
remember like when he started YouTube
you know we spent a lot of time together
and I tried to share with him everything
I knew about YouTube but I never could
have foreseen then that he would have
you know four years and however many
dozens or hundreds of videos he's made
with such consistency and they're all
excellent um he is my favorite to me he
he is truly unique in his creative
output on YouTube um but the the context
of that video where he said that was
that's how he perceived things then and
it was a very um you know contentious
time for us whereas Casey was always on
the hustle on the phone taking meetings
I was inclined to smoke pot all day
immerse myself into this project or that
and how I characterize it is it's like
when you have nothing everything's easy
when you have something things get
really hard and all of a sudden van and
I found herself to be very
successful so in that you know in that
position van was like no I want to be
the artist that's all I want to do I
don't want to handle any of the business
and it meant like okay well that means I
have to handle all of the
business and that is just a it's an
absolutely combustible Dynamic that was
you know it was irreconcilable to have a
Business Partnership around creativity
where roles all of a sudden shifted so
dramatically and you know I think it it
definitely precipitated very quickly
when we didn't make a second Ser uh
season for the HBO show but it was um
yeah it was complicated it was really
complic licated in regarding the
specifics of like business you know I
think that I'm
51% like a business guy and 49% like a
creative guy really wow um for sure tell
tell me more well I mean I think like
unrewarded Talent is you know as common
as you know the wind I think that
unrewarded Talent is everywhere I think
talent's
overrated um I think Talent is is the
lead of your problems I think you can
have zero talent and be wildly
successful but but almost invariably
Talent alone does not guarantee
success um and I've always been
interested in in not just the business
of it but business I enjoy it it's
exciting for me for me there's great uh
Artistry and creativity and how you
approach business and I think when you
look at some of the truly great Business
Leaders like I don't draw more
inspiration from Quinton Tarantino than
I do from Steve Jobs I think that they
just had you know their their craft is
different Steve Jobs craft is business
and Quint Tarantino is film so for me
there's a there's a real conflation
between the two and when it comes to
what excites me you know building a
technology company and trying to figure
out how to make this work raising
Capital was just as exciting as making a
great movie and when I was young and
trying to figure things out and we had
nothing
it was just as exciting for me to figure
out how to get in front of the brand you
know like when you Direct TV commercials
they they like get a bunch of treatments
from a bunch of directors like and then
they have to pick like which director do
we want to work with and then they like
narrow it down to five then they meet
with each of the five and when they
picked me as one of the five and it was
always me and Van oh man would I get
fired up i' be like I'm G to [__]
crush this meeting I'm going to go in
there and tear this meeting to pieces
and I love the business of it and that's
always been true and I think in the in
the shadow of HBO van really discovered
that the business of it wasn't exciting
for him at all um and that you know so
that's a challenging thing and the only
reason I had that reaction when you said
like the breakdown of 51% business 49%
creative is I've heard these stories
during your Vlog days where like you
almost declined a meeting with Jeffrey
kenberg like one of the biggest like
business guys in Hollywood like you know
do a lot for any Creator's career like
how did you think about the
opportunities that were coming in as you
were making Vlogs like that decision cuz
it feels like the right business thing
to do is like take that meeting and see
if you could find specifically then when
I was doing the daily Vlog I had a no
meeting Rule and like that Jeffrey
kenberg story is my agent calls me he's
like Jeffrey kenberg wants to meet with
you and I was like yeah no than so I'm
not taking meetings and he's like no
Casey you this he wants a meeting with
you and it's Jeffrey Kats andberg and I
was
like and we like fought and he talked to
me I remember meeting him like there's
the fanciest restaurant I've ever been
in to this day and sitting down and I
sit down with Kats andberg and I was
like how much time do you have and he
was like I've got time and I just
started going and he like he said to you
you said to him yes he said to me and he
was like Casey slow down like that's
what kenberg said to me the one time
I've interacted with the guy but I
realized very quickly in the daily Vlog
that one it took 100% of my focus you
know my days were always sort of split I
had to focus on my family when I was at
home and then I had to give my business
some very legitimate time and I had to
make a a video there was nothing left
there was nothing so the idea that I'm
going to sit down for an hour and give
real Focus to a meeting with anyone no
it doesn't make any sense and on top of
that when you know your video that
you're posting every day is going to do
a million views so you're telling me me
giving all of my attention to one person
is of greater value than me giving my
attention to a million people I like no
like making videos is my only priority I
think I said that to you like eight
times today by the way until I realized
that you were sitting outside of my
building and I was like my God why did
you tell me you were outside I I don't
want to I thought you were like in a
studio chilling like I had no idea I'm
so sorry and embarrassed about that but
no no because I don't need to post today
I haven't posted a video in eight months
there's no fire there's no rush are
there other big opportunities you said
no to during those Vlog days what were
some of the biggest said no to it
blanket no everything was a no even even
if there could have been a moment if it
required a meeting the answer was no
were there any deals that came in or
brand deals that you're
like yeah most during those Vlog days or
even now like would you lean more
towards saying no to a brand to now now
I almost only say no um but back then it
was you know when you have a when I'm
posting 30 videos a month it's very easy
to say yes right right because it's easy
to incorporate and I I brand deals I
think
if you're ever a Creator and you're
lucky enough to be offered a brand deal
it is an extraordinary opportunity and
do your best and do your best for that
brand give it everything you've got
because it's a
fantastic as long as you work hard at it
it is a fantastically Equitable
opportunity and I think if you really do
it right that the audience is receptive
and appreciative and they if it's if you
got a good audience they're going to
appreciate the fact that you figured out
how to earn off of your hard work it's a
wonderful wonderful thing um but I post
infrequently now and if I post 10 videos
a year um you know I'm happy to have
four of them have a brand deal in it but
I get a little insecure when like you
know I only post branded videos even
though I still work really hard on them
so that I'm sensitive to and you know as
that sensitivity increases as does my
scrutiny of who I'm going to do a brand
deal with you know again when I was
doing it daily it was like as long as
it's not a conflict or it's something
that I don't believe in like I'm not
going to do a you know I'm not going to
do a TV commercial for like who's who's
evil like
um Exxon you know like I'm not going to
do a commercial for them like I'm not
going to do a commercial for like a
cigarette company smoke cigarettes kids
they're great um but as long as it's a
legitimate company and they're not pushy
about what it's for great I like I mean
great if you have an opportunity to make
a living you make that living um but I'm
just not in that position now and I'm
insecure about that so I say no a lot
you have a ton of Brands reaching out
like take me into your inbox like I'll
get say yes from Casey I you know I'm
old now and I have a degree of Financial
Security um you know I've done really
well but I I I also live
like I know what my monthly overhead is
and it's pretty set you know I rent an
apartment in New York which is great
really nice apartment my kids go to
school we groceries and a babysitter and
a car and insurance and stuff like that
but I don't fly in private jets I have
it's awesome if you ever get invited on
a private jet say Yes um you know so I
don't I don't buy fancy stuff my wife
buys my clothes I buy my underwear off
Amazon like I don't I don't when I first
had money like when I first really like
first time in my life made a lot of
money or I sold my company and I was
like oh [__] um I did crazy things and
it was exciting but then you realize
like I'm getting such little value from
this like I spent a lot of money on that
it didn't bring me any sense of
fulfillment and now it's like well the
thing that makes me the happiest is
spending time with my kids and being
alone in my office and things like that
um and the irony of that is the way to
get more of that is not by doing things
that make you money but it's actually
saying no to the things that make you
money so it's a very privileged very
amazing place to be you have this quote
that just has always stuck with me you
you often say ideas are overrated and
you said a great idea can make for a
garbage movie and a garbage idea can
make for a great movie which honestly
goes nearly against everything I've
heard in most of my interviews with
creators especially Mr Beast who says
you know ideas are everything I'm
curious where does that perspective come
from have you ever seen um Vinnie
Gallo's Buffalo
66 no it's one of the I think it's one
of the greatest films in history I think
that's it's regarded as one of the best
films and that movie The Story Goes the
lore goes that he made that movie cuz
somebody bet him he couldn't make a
movie about having to take a piss and
it's like you know it's a phenomenal
movie that had a huge impact on my own
career but I think that it is um I think
that ideas are easy like here's an idea
like make a movie about sharks swimming
around Cape
cot it's a shitty idea but like Jaws
invented the Blockbuster it's one of the
greatest movies ever made so it's not
about discounting what's at the core of
the narrative but it's purely about the
execution I mean you bring up Mr Beast
yeah here's a terrible idea let's make a
red circle and see who can stand in at
the longest that movie has what like 200
million views I've watched that movie
I've watched that YouTube video it's
great and it's great because of Mr
BEAST's execution because of Jimmy's
like the way it was captured and the
focus on characters and because it's fun
and I don't think it's a you know the
idea is particularly novel um I I think
it always comes down to to the execution
yeah I I wanted to break down a few of
your videos I wouldn't say these are
garbage ideas but their ideas that I
think are ones that people would pass by
in everyday life millions of people get
tickets uh in New York City but you
famously turned a ticket that you got on
a bike ride into a video that got 30
million views and I just want to show
you that video and ask you a few
questions does that video have 30
million views yes
huh I know this video I know this video
frame for frame I know I want to ask you
about a few of those fres okay yeah lay
it on
me I'm getting a ticket for riding my
bike not in the bike lane can't busting
my balls I'm doing the world of favor
riding my bike it's pouring right now so
I was I didn't have a camera on me and I
was holding my phone like like this m
and this is the iPhone 5 um my thumb was
over the
microphone when I was interviewing when
I was asking that cop when I was giving
that cop that officer a hard time um but
I was always frustrated how muffled the
audio was because it's such like an
amazing little moment by the way just
sort of parenthetically and I know this
isn't your line of questioning about
this video but this officer and I became
good friends good might be a stretch
like we don't go to dinner at each
other's houses but like I have seen him
multiple times
since this happened and he's a great guy
and I gave him a hard time in the video
and like but we run into each other
every once in a while we say hi one time
I was out of town and my wife sent me a
selfie and it was her and this officer
um so yeah that's that's one of my
favorite parts of of that video when
you're experiencing that moment you're
getting a ticket from the officer is
like your brain saying I'm going to turn
this into a video uh I mean it's
interesting you picked that video
because that video um you know I was a
very different person then it was I was
like a kid in my 20s I was much more uh
much less considered than I am now I was
like a 43-year-old married father of
three I was like a much more Reckless
then um but no I I thought like in the
moment like it was Preposterous that he
was writing me that ticket and the
the the Ridiculousness of it is revealed
by the fact that he never got out of his
car and I always thought and I've asked
him this I've always thought that he
pulled told me he didn't want to get out
of his car he was pouring rain out and
he knew that I would stop and he never
had to get out of his car um so no in
that moment I was just like are you
kidding me I have to stand here in the
pouring rain and on top of that the
ticket that he gave me it turns out was
not legitimate you can't ticket someone
for what he gave me a ticket for um so
no in the moment I was just
flustered so I got a ticket for not
riding the bike lanane but often there
are obstructions that keep you from
proberly before we get the CR out
there's an echo in my voice because I
didn't know how to use audio so my buddy
Oscar is holding the point and shoot
camera like this this is like a Canon
8700 really lowquality camera and I knew
the audio wouldn't get me so I had a
voice recorder like one that like a
journalist would be like Mr President
what do you think about the tax policy I
had that in my pocket with a little
microphone that was like $7 run up ran
up to my lapel and I didn't know how to
I still don't because I don't use Labs I
didn't know how to sync the audio and I
never got it perfect in any event I'll
rewind so we can show me crash okay but
often there are obstructions that keep
you from properly R in the
[Applause]
bike you should know I hate watching my
own videos that's why I want you to
watch them and hearing you roasted is
fascinating yeah wh why like how did you
decide like after that moment to take
the video into this direction um so I
captured like the getting the ticket and
it wasn't this moment that um motivated
me to make a video about it I had that
video just I you know this was after I
had filmed my HBO series and what my HBO
series was was um the production of it
was my big brother van and I for a year
we would sort of like always be seeking
interestingness in our own lives and
then turning that interestingness into
little stories so for that year we
really like we always had cameras on us
sometimes it was a DV camera with an
actual tape in it sometimes it was a PO
and shoot we always had cameras around
and we're always like you know squeezing
the interestingness out of our Lives to
tell stories and it definitely shifts
your brain in a way that would be much
more dramatic when I ended up making my
daily uh YouTube series but it gets you
to that place so when something happens
instinctually I would take a camera out
and it seems silly to say that now
because everybody films everything now
but this was like I mean you probably
know better than me but I think this
video was 15 years ago 16 years ago it
wasn't the case then so I filmed the cop
cuz I don't know seemed interesting and
then when I thought I had a movie here
there was a movie to be made was when uh
NPR was doing a story about bike lanes
and I called in and they answered i'
never been on the radio before and I
remember putting my camera in front of
my FM radio so I could hear myself and
have that for for posterity and that
went off so well like the on on air
interaction was so funny when he's like
the official guy for
giving me legal advice on the radio was
like you can't get a ticket for riding
outside the bike maybe that later in the
video that's not a breach and when he
said that was when I was like oh man
that's such a cool thing to build a
little narrative around listen up as
you've been hearing on our show and
elsewhere the police continue to crack
down on biking infractions as the number
of bikers explodes throughout the city
ticketing is on the rise Casey in
Manhattan you got a ticket this month
yeah I got a a ticket about three weeks
ago for riding my bike not in the bikee
lane not in the bike lane Alex is
holding up a sign that says you could
have just said it his sign says not
illegal yeah so it was that moment when
I was like oh my God this is too funny
cuz I knew that cop was like just giving
me a hard time yeah and that's when I
knew that there was a video and then it
was just like I needed something Punchy
so Oscar and I went out and I was like
let's just film me showing why like I to
this day I don't go near bike Lanes I
think bike lanes for me are so much more
dangerous way more of a liability I have
no problem navigating the streets with
taxis but being confined to a little
bike lane with like some out of town 110
lb girl from Oklahoma on like a 45 lb
City bike with a motor in it I don't
want to be trapped in there with her
like let me you know put me out there
with the animals behind the taxi cabs
and Ubers um but the the final shot when
I crash into a cop car yeah it was epic
it was the only shot we went back out to
get like Oscar and I shot all these
shots and we knew it was going to be a
good video cuz it was just funny
watching it back cuz I really sold the
Falls especially like when I jumped in
the back of the van or like crashed over
a taxi cab but I was like we need to
have me hitting a cop car at the end and
it took us like 5 hours of riding around
the city to find a cop car parked in the
bike lane and this police car is parked
in front of a police station so we were
I was like Oscar you have one chance to
get this shot like I'm not doing this
again I was like I already have a ticket
for this video I will I can't get
arrested for this video um but it worked
out it was a funny video um Casey how do
you turn like something ordinary or like
quotequote non-interesting into
something more interesting like if we
were to go on the street I mean we were
before this like you know trying to
shoot a few photos for your thumbnail or
going around town like I bet if we ran
into people like you know drilling or
doing construction or making noise or
people selling like counterfeit bags
like you could find more of a story
there than the average person who passes
by like do you have thoughts on how like
a YouTuber who can take something
uninteresting and make it more
interesting for a video I mean I think
that's a tough question cuz it's all
it's in the perspective of the you know
person behind the camera but you know I
think of a movie like Kiona
scoty
um which has not one line of dialogue in
it I don't think there's one human in
that movie and it's fascinating can you
give context for people who don't know
scoty is a movie that was made maybe in
the late 70s early 80s um Philip class
did the score and it's it's basically
shots of the planet Earth um so it'll be
shots of like big cityscapes big
mountain shots and it's much more than
just sort of a montage of the world
there is very much so a narrative
revealed in there about maybe Humanity
or um like The Duality of Man and Earth
or something like that like there's real
depth to it and it it it has everything
to do with the way that it was captured
and shared and I think if you start to
pull apart any movie that you're a fan
of you see moment and they're like you
know why the long sort of boring shots
that you see in Lawrence of Arabia like
that's a shot about a desert like why is
a guy riding a camel interesting and
it's like well maybe it's not but this
shot is fascinating some greatest
cinematography and the history of Cinema
in that movie so you know for me it's
like I remember I think I did for like a
few weeks in Los Angeles I made like
really short videos every day for like a
couple months or a month and one day I
woke up and I was like I wonder like I
want to make a movie today about the
most boring thing and I made a video
about a soap dish and I think it's my
one of my favorite videos although I
haven't watched it back since I posted
it but I just remember making it and
like how hard it was to try to pretend
that I was naked cuz I was in the shower
but like I couldn't be naked cuz I have
a rule which is like even when you're
trying to pretend to be naked you never
know if like the reflection of the
shower KN so always have on shorts so
I'm like so wet trying to work with my
cameras that keep fogging up to make
this like ridiculous video about a soap
dish and in the end I don't know if
anybody liked it but like for me I
thought it was great I thought I had so
much fun making it I thought the video
was so fun so I you know maybe not
everybody loves the Craft um but for me
that's what excites me the most is the
craft so it it really it it marginalizes
the need for a super compelling
story I'm going on but I should qualif
that like a great story is always a
great story and when I think of like you
know
like I made a movie a year ago about
running a marathon and it was 17 years
literally of like to for that story
whether I made a video about it or not
to happen which was me being like
someday I'm going to do this and then it
took me 17 years to do that and I worked
really hard to try to in the craft of
that movie to try to make it as good as
I could make it but that's a great story
if you and I were sitting here and I
would tell you that story you know I
would be really excited to share that
story it's much harder to share a story
about a soap dish the soap dish was just
about the craft but there are great
stories so I don't I don't invalidate
great stories but I think that in a
world of YouTube where the barrier to
entry is not
existent um I think that perfect is is
almost always the enemy of good and when
you're just trying to exercise what it
is that you like doing which is I hope
why most people are motivated to post um
don't worry about so much Perfection
like be good by through repetition and
just exercising your craft yeah is it
harder to do that now that you don't
have a daily Vlog because the daily Vlog
you have a deadline you have to put it
out and are you familiar with
Parkinson's law where everything
stretches to fit the deadline I know
we've been talking throughout this week
you working on finishing this edit do
you feel like now that you don't have a
daily deadline which most YouTubers
don't have like your work kind of
balloons to fit the deadline that you
have yeah it's much hard now when I and
I feel like I talked about this in some
of the early Vlogs um part of the reason
why uh I gave myself that mandate and I
loved it was knowing that you have to
post every day like did something to me
which was like you know Screw Your
writer's block like it doesn't get to
happen and I remember early in the Vlog
uh there were a couple times one where I
didn't get to film anything and I was so
insecure about what I was posting
um that I named the video something like
just me
talking because I was really insecure
about that and then sure enough I come
to realize that like no a lot of people
are tuning in because beyond the content
they've sort of formed an interest in
whatever it was that I was sharing that
day so the fact that I was just mostly
that wasn't about the cinematographer or
about the craft it was more about me
sharing something that that was that
video was valid um and I liked that
there were also days many days probably
happened a dozen times over the course
of the Vlog where I would sit down to do
the edit and I would have no audio
because of my own not paying attention
or something microphone not plugged in
but just plugged in enough to deactivate
the internal microphone and it was like
I remember it'd be 9:00 I just put the
baby to sleep and I would sit down to
edit and be like I can't ADR this thing
like what do I do it's the middle of the
night and ADR for people don't know is
re-recording the audio yeah after done
yeah and you know by hook or by crook
you got to find that solution but what'
you do in those cases I go watch the
videos but I think I did like a lot of
like cutting to me sitting in the
kitchen being like look it's 9: at night
I just hav aved this audio I don't have
any I don't have any audio so I'm going
to put some text on the screen and like
did something fun like that and I don't
know I think that that there's that's
something interesting about that too I
broke down the you know the what is it
the third wall the fourth wall like the
fifth wall in that situation like all
the walls were broken and I wouldn't
have normally done that that's not a
deliberate style but when this you know
when
there's no other option but to post
you're forced to discover means of of
accomplishing the goal yeah by the way I
love all the sounds of New York City
like coming in here this isaz I can give
you plenty of room tone because I have
hours of it because all of my edits or
all the footage I shoot here is always
messed up because of for those at home
I'm on the second floor um in New York
City on Broadway and the second floor is
the exact height of like the top of the
buses or where the sirens are are on a
ambulance so you miss nothing here my
windows are not insulated yeah usually
we get soundproof play but I mean to be
here I feel like this just adds to it
and uh yeah it doesn't stop no we won't
stop you just push through it yeah yeah
it'll get
louder there's no emergency everyone at
home stay
calm that's like a six on a scale of one
to as loud as this city gets does this
ever get distracting when you're deep in
an edit or you're
where it gets
distracting is
um not all of you know I probably
uploaded just a couple videos that have
that are
monologues and I don't use um
teleprompters or
scripts uh and this is true also I guess
when I'm recording voiceover or talking
to camera but I'll have the idea refined
in my head and I'll sit there thinking
how do I say this how do I you know be
how how can I be the most articulate um
and I'll get it and I'll find that
momentum and then you have to pause and
not only when you pause that maybe you
forget which you can write it down to
help with that but your Cadence is off
your temperament gets shifted you know I
go from like today was a great day to
being like H you know like today was
tough and because I'm frustrated so but
them's the
breaks how are you so articulate in
those videos especially the ones that
look like they're one take like are are
you bullet pointing anything before yeah
I mean not bullet pointing is tough but
usually I
um you know I give a tremendous amount
of thought to it and I'll take notes for
a couple days typically when I run and I
have like a clear head and I'll just
write down all these ideas and then when
I'm come back to my office I'll just
write down all those ideas and sort of
an Aggregate and I'll read it back to
myself a hundred times and then I'll
just sit there like you know eyes go to
soft focus kind of sitting there until
makes sense in my head and most of them
unless there's some sort of external
siren or you know something Falls or the
microphone trips or something most of
them I get in not just one take but the
first take so I have a really hard
time of Faking a you know those videos
are if I'm doing a monologue video
that's one take it's something serious
and I have a really hard time faking
that so I'll usually just use whatever
the first take is but there's prep that
goes into it beforehand I didn't real a
lot a lot of thought yeah about how to I
mean look when I'm going home to talk to
my wife about something I give that a
lot of thought you know um so I'm I'm
always pretty considerate or I try to be
but those are probably the most
distilled version of that I know when I
was interviewing MKBHD showed me like
the notes before he turns on the camera
cuz he's also so eloquent when he starts
usually just looks so natural we could
do this whole podcast about Marquez I
think Marquez will go down in history as
the greatest YouTuber in the history of
the
platform um I've always said that I
remember tell me more I like Marquez and
I were both nominated for like YouTuber
of the decade or some big thing like
that and I like I think I tweeted
something to the effect of like Marquez
better win this and he won it and I
don't think he needed anyone's help in
winning that but I think when you look
at the totality of his career the fact
that he started as a child with like his
mom's compact laptop and a terrible
camera and with a squeaky voice it is
such like a a demonstrable
irrefutable piece of history that shows
that like this kid knew exactly what he
wanted exactly where he wanted to fit in
in this world and then for him to take
that and not just like be among the
David poges who was you know the tech
video guy for the New York times or the
the the guy who was who's the the um
Washington Post had that what was that
guy's name the gray-haired guy who's
great too but not just to be among those
greats but he absolutely [__] crushed
everyone crushed no one is looking to
the New York Times for the iPhone 16
review no one is looking at what the
Wall Street Journal is saying um I
should caveat that Joanna Stern's at the
Wall Street Journal she's great too but
uh Marquez has has absolutely
annihilated that space and then he has
rebuilt that space By no effort of his
own because he's so good and was so far
out in front that now it is emulated
across the board I mean not just by
other YouTubers and there's a lot of
really talented um Tech reviewers out
there super saf is one of my favorite
creators across the board awesome
especially in the tech space um but
Marquez has defined a
genre and for him to not not only do
that but then
maintain his spot um as the most
influential individual and I I you know
I remember when his te his videos
technically just eclipsed everyone
else's but what I found lately that I
find so um just wildly impressive about
his content is that it feels like he's
found a consistency in the style and
he's almost dialed back some of the
really
like super impressive techn aspects and
replace them with just him talking
because he's all he's not just elevated
technically what he's doing but his
ability to
articulate specific understandings about
technology something that is IND
duplicatable I don't know how you say
that word no one can copy that there's
only one person that thinks like Marquez
but his ability to turn that to
words is so unreal that I find myself
watching his 20 minutes videos about a a
piece of technology I have no interest
in because his take on it and his
ability to communicate that take is so
fascinating um in the businesses that
he's built and the fact that he's a
professional athlete and all of that but
I I think that like we were talking
about staying power and pop culture and
how everybody gets their turn in the sun
I it's because it's like you know we all
loved Britney Spears when toxic came out
in 2004 or whatever it was but now
Britney Spears is a mom and she's in her
whatever it is mid to late she's not a
pop star anymore um we will always want
to to know about the latest technology
there will always be new technology and
we need a voice we can trust and I think
30 years from now that that voice will
be Marquez brownley and that's why I
think like if you're only judging him on
what he's done today he's still the
greatest YouTuber that's ever existed
but I think 20 years from now there will
be no question in in what he has done
for the world of YouTube yeah I have a
lot more on that and uh and how
YouTubers are just changing their
respective Industries I want to ask more
about your creative process though k
great um I got
another you should know I almost I so
that video bike Lanes I've seen a
thousand times because I when I do
lectures and talks I love showing it to
the audience it's such a funny crowd
pleaser and that movie was such an
inflection point for my career but most
of my videos once I upload them I I
never watch them again I don't think
I've ever seen any of my Vlogs unless I
catch my daughter watching them oh wow
how often dides that happen never cuz we
we banned YouTube in the house but
before we ban YouTube in the house I
would catch her every once in a while
she would just scrub looking for herself
as a baby I want to ask about that um
but can I put you on the hot seat to
have you break down this your show I
don't have much of a choice here I want
to ask you to break down this
Vlog 800 that's how many days in a row I
tell me about the opening and why write
on your hand you do this a lot in your
videos when a lot of people will just
put in a
graphic first of all I want you know I
don't remember this video and I have no
idea what happens in this video the
title is no I know that like three
things I learned from 100 days of this
just an idea I had that day and I went
and made this video and then never
watched it again so this video only was
in
my my my world for like 12 hours um so
when I click play no most of the time I
can recognize the video this one I don't
remember um why I put it on my hand
because you know it's like when you
click play I want something interesting
to happen
and uh I think that's infinitely more
interesting than sort of an optical text
that you type into into um you know
Premiere and I think it's more
interesting because there's a level of
humanity to it it's from a a
cinematography perspective it's showing
you where your eyeballs should go it's
letting the audience know where they
should be paying attention um you know
the framing of that my hand enters
perfectly Center frame so it rack Focus
to my hand and then my hand my face
switches plac with my hand so the focus
doesn't shift um where your eye is
looking doesn't shift but my my hand
gets replaced by my face you know those
sorts of technical considerations um as
far as like Sharpie on my hand I think
that like
as video editing has become something
that's entirely ubiquitous in the way
that I don't know
like video editing used to be a highly
specialized thing very few people knew
how to do it there's only a few brain
surgeons 30 years ago there's only a few
video editors and now like you know my
nine-year-old teaches my wife how to
edit
videos and I think that it's so easy to
use
technical um means to solve any sort of
issue and I think there's a gross over
indexing of you know leaning into the
technicalities like if you're making a
cute video about you and your kids don't
[__] color correct it you know why
cuz then I don't believe it I don't I
don't trust that video at all uh I look
at that and I think like you really
expect me to believe that this is a real
shot like this is a genuine moment
between you and your kid like this isn't
something that's more manipulative or
something I you know I take all that
personally and I think the way that I
counter that in my videos is
like there's no setting in Premiere that
has that title as silly as that is
um like you know that's why I always
search those sorts of things yeah
because I know I know it's a silly
question ask why do you write something
on your hand but I pick out that moment
in this video specifically because it
represents a theme I see in your videos
like you cut out things on paper you
write things on a Sharpie like you bring
in like sometimes beans in the video to
count things out like it's very very
analog in a world where we're getting
increasingly digital yeah there's
another aspect to that too years and
years and years ago like 2007 or
something I gave a a lecture at the
Museum of Modern Art and it was called
perfectioning racist
humanity and that talk was motivated
because this is when like Pixar was
really blowing up and I think Disney had
just announced that they were no longer
doing
handdrawn uh animated movies they were
just doing computer animated movies and
it was when we were in that really like
um uncanny valley of CGI and
movies and I think now we are given the
opportunity to have a level of
perfection in everything we do that is
related to video it's why like you know
most Netflix movies all look the same
it's cuz you have these tools where
Perfection can be achieved but you go
back and you look at you know you look
at you know any horror movie from the
late 80s and it's like well how far can
we take the monster and it's like as far
as the Puppeteer can build the monster
and it's like well how far can we take
the monster in 2024 and it's like
literally Limitless do you want to make
it as tall as the moon and have it
swallow the Earth like a Tic Tac we can
do that there are no limits to what we
can do
and I think we lose a sense of sort of
humanity in that and I think to like why
was Gremlin so impactful when I was a
little kid and it's because like the
mwai was a puppet that some like that
was actually physically there and it was
a puppet that maybe is in some like box
somewhere on the on the you know back
lot but it was a real thing and when I
watch movies now like that thing doesn't
exist it never existed in the real world
and I feel like there's a little bit of
a disconnect there um and I'm very Pro
CGI like I think it's it is an art form
in itself and I love perfectly color
corrected movies and I like all of that
but I think there's something that's a
little bit lost when you
lose when you lose you know the handmade
quality I have one more story Tim
Burton's peewee's big
adventure in have you seen that movie
wow God La guy was not Southern
California guy has not seen peewee's big
adventure yeah I grew up in an immigrant
household like we watch very different
movies phenomenal movie fantastic movie
and all the PeeWee Herman movies most of
them sucked but the first one because
Tim Burton directed it was fantastic so
there's a scene in that movie where he's
in uh this tractor trailer truck sitting
next to this like scary driver named
Large Marge and he's starting to freak
out and he's looking at the road signs
they're going past them faster and
faster and faster and they're getting
crazier and crazier the road signs and
if you watch it and you pay just a
little bit of attention you see in the
lower right hand corner of the frame
that the road signs are on little tracks
meaning that when they were shooting it
they weren't a moving car they were just
moving the signs by the frame now
there's no way that the colorists and
the editor and Tim Burton the director
didn't see that you could see those but
he made the deliberate decision to leave
them in
there and what that did to me like when
I was a little kid and I discovered that
is it like let me look under the curtain
and it showed me like there this was
like a people made this and I love that
like that's part of the storytelling
that I think I love the most so for me
it's like well I have to communicate
some information right now I need to
communicate like that the number 800
needs to be
emphasized so what's a way I can do that
that you know maybe starts to poke at
something like that or if I need to
animate something like yeah I could hire
some animator and have it look like
everything or like let me just cut up a
million pieces of paper and figure out
how to stop frame this and it's just
it's just what it's what turns me on
it's what I like to see so that's why I
do it Perfection erases Humanity when
something is truly perfect there's no
sign of the human hand in it do you feel
like that's even more true on YouTube
yeah and that's that's part of the
reason why I adore YouTube yeah yeah I
think it's it's you know it's my
favorite because of that you get to see
people screwing up and people like it's
your it's this is my first video I know
it's your first video like I'm psyched
let's do this yeah um I have another
scene in that that I want to point out V
800 days
I'm curious like even when you bring
like graphics on screen like that title
sequence that it's been in so many Vlogs
that we've seen what's your thought
process there like why keep it so simple
like default tell me more this a little
extreme I don't think that selecting uh
font is a creative
expression did you ever see the um sat
Live skit where they like pick on Avatar
Papyrus for picking Papyrus as their
font I don't think choosing a font is a
creative expression
um and when I see people using really
crazy creative fonts I like roll my eyes
and it's like yeah and cool like you
scrolled through and picked that one
like it doesn't mean anything to me so
that is very literally the default in
Final Cut Pro that's um it's like
helvetica bold or Aries bold or
something like that's the default yeah
so when I use text which I do I'm
totally not against it it serves a very
important purpose um I almost always use
the default as a way of expr like look
this is not a there's a lot of creative
I try to put a lot of creative
expression in this this is not one of
those things this is just me
communicating information that I feel
you as a viewer needs to need to know
how how do you make that decision for
moments where you're like let's keep it
simple let's keep it default because
there's a lot of moments in your videos
where it's definitely not that well
because that's not a moment that needs
to be particularly emphasized that's
contextual like that title literally
said like not a vlog but I was following
it was it was meant to be sort of a
reference to my vlog
um so it was meant to be kind of tongue
and cheek and referential but not if you
blinked and closed your eyes during that
you would miss none of the narrative
which maybe is a good test for one to
keep at default there's another moment
there that I thought was really
creative it's been it's been like 5
years since I stopped daily blogging and
I think about it all the time and I
think how do you think about when to
change where you're delivering a line in
your videos I mean maybe in between
thoughts in between ideas rather
um I don't know I think sometimes it can
be really annoying like just talk to me
um so maybe it represents like an
insecurity in what I'm saying that I
don't think that's particularly
interesting so I try to make it more
interesting by doing that or maybe it's
just fun to do these shots there's not a
lot of thought put into that
specific cuz it's interesting I was
interviewing Peter McKinnon who talked
about his trip to Amsterdam with you oh
poor Peter and he was talking about how
like you both went out and did your
Vlogs and you were very methodical you
knew what your shots were you got it bam
bam bam you were done and he was still
trying to figure out his video
like like H how do you plan a day when
you have to shoot a video like that I I
don't I don't plan um I don't plan you
know the video that you were helping me
do my thumbnail for a minute ago like
there's never a plan um what I had a
funny term for for it that I would call
which is like plan
spontaneity which is that's there's got
to be better verbage for that but
basically it's like go out there and
your plan is to capture whatever happen
spontaneously um this movie that like
I'm I just finished today it's about a
fire hydrant in Bedford CS which is in
Brooklyn there's a leaky fire hydrant
that was collecting water in the curb so
some guy put goldfish in there and take
it easy pea the Goldfish he put in there
were called feeder fish which is fish
that are meant to be eaten by other fish
and he dumped them in there and then
people started showing up to check on
the fish and like six weeks later it's
become this like unifying thing for the
community where everybody comes out and
like chips in to take care of the fish
and like it's a it's the most beautiful
thing ever like it's this lovely Mo like
this little speck of humanity in this
big scary City and I was like how do I
make an interesting movie about a fire
hydrant and I was like I don't know like
just got a start and the minute I go
outside I'm like you know you discover
the interestingness like one aspect of
this little video I'm posting
today is like I I shot sort of the intro
and I was like okay cool intro what's
next I got to go out to the fire hydrant
to Brooklyn to find it and I was like
how am many how am I going to get there
and that was just an honest thought and
I was like that's a good scene so like
let me make a scene of how I'm going to
get there and I decided to take like
this stupid motorcycle thing that I have
there um and I was like cool and I made
a little scene of me picking the
motorcycle and then I had to get the
motorcycle out of here and I I couldn't
get it in the elevator and I was like
this is funny like this is funny in real
life like the to the poor girl trying to
use the elevator watching me get my like
legs stuck in I was like this is
genuinely F this is a
scene so I knew that I was filming this
video I didn't like sit down and be like
okay what will be humorous is some
physical comedy in the elevator with the
with the motorcycle it was just like
that was the default and then I get on
the
bike and I realize how stupid the bike
is cuz it literally like makes a
squeaking sound and I was like man this
is the least cool thing there is and as
I'm riding the bike I'm like I'm going
to edit this with like Moto GP
motorcycle audio under it so it seems
like I'm on a race bike and I was like
but like anybody with half a mind is
going to realize that this is not a real
so I was like okay I need to say that to
camera I need to acknowledge that on
camera so when I'm editing this I like
to all everyone who's like this guy is
like that's not a motorcycle then it can
be me being like look I know it's not a
motorcycle so I had to get that scene
and I was like okay where do I need to
be for that and I was like okay and then
I start riding and I get lost and that's
a little moment and then I'm like it
took forever to find the fire hydrant
and I'm like this is so boring I can't
just have more shots of me there's no
more subject matter to pull from this
stupid bike that I'm on um and that's a
big gap in the narrative and then when I
came back here I filled that Gap in
using footage that wasn't mine I like
download loed some news footage about
the fire hydrant and I was like great
like that was not planned then when I
got to the fire hydrant I was just
looking around and I was like what is
interesting here and what was
interesting were the people and I
started talking to them and I was like
okay like there's something I don't know
what they're going to say and what they
said was I don't know it's like profound
it made me cry and I was like okay who
this is a great story and um you know
that was that's the story that I found
so what I planned was like I want to
film a movie about that fire hydrant and
everything else I knew that would I
didn't know what else uh the story was
but I knew that everything else had to
be discovered so I planned to tell that
story and I planned to find spontaneous
moments you just can't plan what those
spontaneous moments are the way you use
zoom on your camera is really it's
almost like punctuation when you're
writing how do you think about the shot
with what you're saying when you're
zooming like the way you use a lens is
really interesting yeah I mean like
talking to camera is a science of its
own
you know like I remember vividly the day
that I figured out you know my initial
idea when I started the first episode of
the Vlog was that like I would shoot it
it more stylistically because daily
vlogging then which was really dominated
by a couple of very talented guys named
Ben Brown and fun for Louie and their
style was mostly like a very
but you know I I I'm a filmmaker I was
then anyway and I want to use those film
making skills and that knowledge of how
to use a camera so I you'll follow along
with my day but it'll feel more
cinematic um but my initial thinking was
whenever I talk to camera it will
necessarily be a point and shoot because
there's nowhere to film yourself with an
SLR and then I remember one day I had my
tripod and I sort of shoved it into my
belt so it's like this long thing that's
like sticking out from my belt and I
cocked the camera so it would be all the
way down and face me and I was like whoa
this looks like like a steady cam or
something walking in front of me and I
was like this is cool like a full-on
tripod yeah and I was like this kind of
works and then I came back to the studio
and found a gorilla pod which my brother
vaned bought years prior to use as a
tripod and I was like this is a better
handle and then I threw a 12mm on the
camera and I was like w like this is
like a cool look of its own and I was
like this thing's heavy but whatever
I'll just get a little stronger and
figure this out and then I realized I
could use a directional mic which meant
losing a lot of the Ambient sound and
having it really pick up me more um
acutely so that was just like it was it
was an evolution that and then you
specifically were asking about how do I
know when to manipulate the zoom and
punctuate moments and that was just sort
of a process of repetition um it's also
like the the sunglasses were birthed
from that uh you know Peter McKinnon who
I think is like maybe the greatest
cinematographer on YouTube I love his
videos um he's so good he's incredible
yeah he's he's also just like he is like
my favorite photographer he's such a
good still photographer as well great
Storyteller but I always give him a hard
time because back when we' make videos
together because he would use a Canon
1dx this huge amazing camera that's why
his videos look so good but it doesn't
have an articulating screen so when he
would turn the camera on himself he just
sort of guess where he is in frame and I
would give him help for that cuz I'm
like
your cinematography is better than any
other of the 1.2 billion people on this
platform but when you spin the camera
around you're sort of this floating head
it's not a good shot it's a terrible
shot and it was just this ongoing joke
between he and I because I would always
show him like when I have the lens
flipped around and I have my sunglasses
on I can always keep like eye to lens
face to lens but my eyeballs are
actually on that and what that means
that I can do is sort of like I can tap
to focus and I can WP focus on the
subject behind me or I can just have the
subject behind me as if I don't know
that they're there and that can be part
of the narrative um and all kinds of
thinking that comes like that uh that
came as a product of that so the zooming
in for emphasis and stuff it was just
all a product of like staring at your
own stupid face that would be my stupid
face in the viewfinder all day long and
being like ah this is getting old how do
I make it more interesting well let me
try this this let me try that I should
never be centered let me off-center
myself well no I need to be centered
sometimes okay well here's where
centering makes sense here's where being
off-centered makes sense where do I want
the eyes to be when I'm editing it back
like you learn to shoot in the edit um
and you learn to sort of write in the
shoot because you're out there like what
am I shooting I should have thought
about this um but you learn to shoot in
the edit where I'm like [__] why didn't
I shoot that like this then the next day
I do that repeat 800 times and you start
to develop a style with talking to the
camera that's all its own are there any
other little things like that where you
watched yourself back and you're like I
could do this I could develop a style
here beyond the zoom the glasses no and
it was never to develop a style um there
was never anything that deliberate it
was always just like [__] I hate the way
that looks I should have done it like
this what are some examples of that you
know like um shaky camera which has its
place Paul Green Grass is one of my
favorite directors uh
his movies are really shaky the born
Supremacy great one of the greatest
action movies ever shaky camera where's
the place like when do you decide to
have a shaky camera um shaky camera has
a place when like you're showing a kind
of tension or a kind of urgency or a
kind of like uh the camera can
communicate emotion when it's shaky and
things like that the camera shouldn't be
shaky when you're when you're trying to
not make it about the camera when you're
trying to make it about what's being
captured I hate shaky I hate it's not
fun to watch unless it's meant to be
like that and like when Jason Bourne is
sprinting through like the G dord in
Paris being chased after by armed gunman
I want to feel the tension of a gunman
running through the fire like the the
train station um most of my YouTube
videos don't include gun chases so like
I'm much more deliberate with it like I
like a fixed camera I tripod like I
would always my rule is I would always
rather have a tripod than a cameraman H
tripod will never screw you over it will
do exactly what you tell to
do um so you know that that kind of
thinking yeah and I'm watching back
footage and the the the shots shaky and
I'm like I can't use this I lose the
whole scene did you realize when your
glasses were becoming a character or
like the like I mean that's part of your
brand now like it was purely technical
at first and then you know I just
realized that like
I'm better looking when I have glasses
on there's a funny Jack Nicholson quote
which is that when I take my glasses off
I'm just a fat old man but when I put my
glasses on I'm Jack Nicholson so I did
that and then it just led to me being
super weird which is where I am now
which is like I'm you know I'm very
uncomfortable making eye contact with
people and like when I go into a coffee
shop and I was like
uh this is somebody's looking at me cuz
in New York like I you know I've been on
the same block for 20 years so most
coffee shops I'm fine but on my block is
us you know more often than not there's
like somebody taking a picture or
something so like now I use my glasses
to sort of hide from the world and maybe
protect myself but that's that's for my
therapists um but they initially started
as very literally a technical necessity
do you remember what the most AdSense
Revenue you made in a month one last
thing Casey shares so many tips and
references and insights during this
interview and there's more coming up but
if you want to get it all in a
beautifully designed ebook then sign up
using the link below created. news/ casy
and for good measure you also get the
YouTube playbooks with all the tips and
Graphics from my other interviews with
Mr Beast and more it's all part of our
created newsletter where every week
you'll get a breakdown of the latest
news for creators and get a Roundup of
the best videos thumbnails and more so
you're always a step ahead that link
again is created. news/ Casey or just
see the link in the description I know a
lot of you guys take notes during these
interviews so I thought this' be a fun
way to give you something a bit more
tangible to take away from these talks
all right now back to the video no it
was a lot it's funny cuz I get so I have
my AdSense Revenue um connected to a
bank account that is with like an
account that goes into my like
retirement um because I don't make much
in AdSense now I don't post often and my
um like the the person I have that sort
of keeps an eye on that I get an email
from the bank every month just saying we
received this from Google every time
something goes in I get a notification
but it's a human notific if and I
remember there was always enthusiasm in
it back in the day when it'd be like a
significant amount of money and I still
like John is his name the person who who
I get the email from from the bank and I
still like I think I got one from him
this month and he was like hello Casey
just wanted to let you know we received
$900 from Google this month we'll be
putting that to work in your retirement
account have a great month only 900 of
AdSense I mean no idea I think I I don't
think I did a million views last month
what's a million views what do you get
for that I mean depends on your CPM
like have you made more than a million
dollars a month on AdSense no I've never
come I don't think I've ever come close
to a million dollars in a month you were
pulling crazy views like I you know I
think the most views I ever did in a
month was like 130 million views or
something like that 120 million views
wow
and I mean you cpms are so much higher
now than they ever were back then but
that didn't get me that wasn't even in
the conversation of a million dollars
yeah fractions it was a significant
amount of money it was more than I could
ever imagine getting paid it was
absolutely not a million dollar who the
hell gets Mr Beast gets a million dollar
who makes that much money a month I
guess there are creators the [__] do I
know is it also true that you didn't
turn on monetization till you had 100
million views like yeah there's a couple
regrets that sounded virtuous at the
time um that I'm willing to accept
because I I mean it and one is like I
wouldn't turn turn on AdSense because
this is way back in the day this is 2009
2010 when I clicked on a video on
YouTube and an ad played I hated it I I
don't want to watch an ad and for me I
made a living back then this is before
my technology company I made a living by
directing TV commercials and I did okay
you know I made a decent living and I
was like I make videos cuz I love making
videos so the minute these videos that I
make cuz I love making them are about
making a few bucks in exchange for
punishing my audience this wasn't what
is it now 4 seconds and you can skip
seven seconds so this isn't a skip back
then it was like 30 seconds
unskippable I was like I'm not going to
punish my audience so I never turned it
on and then when I started vlogging
someone was like dude you know it's real
money and I was like no like just turn
it on no one will mind and I turned it
on then like the next month I got like
you know 1500 bucks and I was like [__]
I was like I can't believe I have been
saying no to that money the second thing
was that I never really did merch
towards the end of the vlogging era I
put out a couple
sweatshirts um and I was psyched to do
that and when I see them now I'm psyched
yeah the work harder ones yeah they're
great and I didn't do it because I felt
like brand deals are very this is I
don't believe in this but I felt this
then I felt like brand deals were a very
Equitable exchange like look I'm going
to make a very compelling piece of
content that I hope you like and within
that content is is going to be some sort
of sponsorship that I hope to be
transparent as possible and I hope you
know it's an ad but there's an exchange
of value here I'm going to make you
something good that I hope you'll like
and in exchange this brand is going to
pay me for having made that that's felt
fair but for some reason and I was wrong
I want to be very careful with this I
foolishly thought that it was exploiting
my audience to sell merch I was wrong
and I realized I was wrong because when
I was a little kid all I wanted was a
Red Hot Chili Pepper sweatshirt
and I don't think that the red hot I
don't think
flea That's the basis from the Red Hot
Chili Peppers for anyone under the age
of 30 I don't think that the Red Hot
Chili Peppers Were exploiting Me by
selling me a sweatshirt I think what
they were doing is giving me an
opportunity to like show the world that
like I want to that I'm a fan I love the
Red Hot Chili Pepper so I regret not
working harder to make great merch and
like make good income you make so much
money off of merch if you do it
correctly at least there's a big
opportunity to make a lot of money and I
think I could have done an awesome job
making merch I think the one time or two
times I did it they were really great so
I regret not doing that so not turning
on AdSense and not selling more t-shirts
are two Financial regrets of mine for
the Vlog days how much money do you
think you've left on the table because
I'm not turning on monetization I mean
you could do the math it's whatever 100
million views were so it's
not it wasn't you know it was it's real
money but it wasn't lifechanging I think
it was more impressive is um at the Apex
of David Do's Vlogs when he was doing 20
million views an
episode he would use commercial music
and he would get zero in AdSense oh I I
interviewed Danny Duncan it's the same
thing I mean he's changed it now but he
let go of a ton of monetization because
he was like this song gives this
nostalgic feeling I'm going to put in my
videos you know he can just go license
those songs and you give a lot to the
label give him 10 grand or 20 grand but
then you can get the license but like
the amount of money that I saw David
leave on the table was truly like it
unreal amount of money for me I don't
you know 100 million views it's it's
it's probably real money whatever 100
million views in 2008 was in AdSense
2010 but I don't think it was I don't
think it would have changed my life I
think it would have been in the over the
course of five years you know thousands
of dollars and not more do you have any
advice when it comes to designing merch
because like the way you put out like my
only advice is like if you don't do it
if you don't care about it just don't do
it don't make shitty merch I love when I
see like Danny Duncan has the greatest
merch like virginity rocks like I don't
care if you have never heard of Danny
Duncan that is hysterical or like I love
hot moms isn't that one of his shirts he
gave me a bunch of that when we had our
kid and now like I push our our like
one-year-old in a stroller with a shirt
that says virginity rocks yeah or like I
love hot moms I know that's a great
shirt cuz my wife saw some like
14-year-old kid wearing that she was
like that's a cute shirt you know what I
mean like so my advice to if you're
doing merch just make sure you love it
and you would wear it um and and if you
don't love making it then maybe it is
exploitive don't do it make it great my
wife and I talk about you and Candace a
lot like you listen to your old podcast
like couples therapy just like cuz going
through life as a Creator like managing
relationships with friends with your
spouse it's it's very different um
during those Vlog days where you were on
your grind like how hard was that on
your
marriage I mean it was it was tough I
think there are benefits to it which is
that like for Candace's sake I was
always distracted which is probably a
net
positive um but it was yeah it was
really challenging it the hours were
really challenging I remember like
faking being engaged because I'd come
home and I'd be like I just need to
start this edit cuz I have to go to
sleep and I if it's not it has to be
posted by tomorrow 8:00 in the morning
and every minute that I'm not working on
it right now is a minute I'm going to be
working on it at 4: in the morning and
it's the only thing my mind but she was
like can you please not come home and
sit at your computer and that's a such a
fair
request um so those sorts of things were
really hard the travel was tough cuz it
wasn't just me being away it meant that
she's alone with the the baby um so yeah
it was it was really really hard and I
think there was some mutual
appreciation um although it's a little
bit revisionist at the time it was hard
to appreciate it but there was some
mutual appreciation and understanding
that like this thing that I'm doing
right now can't last forever and the
opportunity is uh apparent so you know I
saw that and I know that she appreciated
that but it's easy to say now it's hard
to say when like the baby's screaming
and I'm in
dubby so it was yeah it was tough do you
guys discuss putting a deadline on it
like 800 days Casey got to cut it off or
no not like that she it was the the
discussion that was close to that was
she was like I just want you to do it
five days a week and I was like I can do
it zero or every day the minute I
because the minute you take one day off
the whole house of card falls apart and
that's exactly what happened like when I
ended the Vlog and then started it again
and then ended the Vlog and start the
minute I
tasted that you don't have to post every
day you're like oh wait it's like I I
don't know if you've ever been on a diet
but like I try to give up sugar my
sister's a nutritionist and I only eat
peanut M&M's they make up 80 % of my
caloric intake um and my sister gets in
my ear about how sugar is going to kill
me and I give up sugar I do this all the
time every six weeks she talks me into
giving up sugar and I quit sugar
completely and then a few days later I
will taste one peanut &em and then once
I taste it I'm like what's the big deal
how many cookies did you watch me eat
like 45 minutes ago like and that's just
what it was with the daily Vlog that if
it's every day there's this term in
um I think it's Alcoholics Anonymous
that a good friend of mine who's in the
program explained to me and he said the
beauty of Being
Sober is that I don't have to wake up
every day and say am I going to drink
today because I know I'm
not and that's heavy and I don't mean to
be using if this is insensitive at all
to use this as a analogy I I apologize
but when I was doing my video every day
there was never I never had to make that
decision there was no question it had to
be made every day and the minute I
tasted that I didn't have to do it every
day the whole thing fell apart it's why
if you're don't eat sugar you can't have
one &em if you don't drink alcohol you
can't have one beer and if you're
[__] daily vlogger you don't take
Sunday off and that's what it was like
for me and what about your te CU I
thought it was so interesting like a lot
of people would hire to help like make
things easier but you had this no people
yeah but I want to ask about that cuz
you had this fascinating quote on Rich
rolls podcast where he talked about
hiring someone as talented as Dan ma who
we've had on the show and you said that
that made things twice as hard Dan mace
is not just talented he's he's
exponentially more talented than I am he
is more creative than I am he's more
technically versed he's one of the most
creative people on YouTube he's more
he's a better manager he's smarter than
I am he is one of like the greatest
creators in the Creator space and he was
young and covered in Awards and drowning
in Opportunity um yet he was like yeah
let's do this thing together and I had
this vision of like I've just got like
Michael Jordan just agreed to play for
the Bulls like he's coming to work with
me and yeah it it made things twice as
hard twice as slow um and I want to be
clear he was Michael Jordan this is not
a dig at him he did everything MH but it
the way it worked for me was it made me
twice as slow it made it twice as hard
for me because it was you know evident
and I only learned it by working with
him that like this weird thing that was
figuring out that story of day a lot of
it was just sort of like my own internal
brain just running being like what am I
capturing what am I doing how do I
capture this where should the camera be
you can't communicate that and the
minute you have to externalize that of
course the slows thing down like instead
of thinking the camera needs to be here
and putting the camera there have to say
the camera John needs to go there and
you say like this and I say no I'm not
like that and then I go and fix it and
then I think to myself why didn't I just
[__] put it there I had to correct
him but but after six months or so like
no took me a lifetime to get there I
can't expect him to get there in six
months moreover he's his own you know he
has his own Creative Vision and he's
brilliant and he's not going to you know
he's not
no you know if you took Bob Dylan and
have him had him hang around with you
know like a some hack like the New Kids
on the Block that would be me I'm the
hack and you take this virtuoso like Dan
mace I'm not going to expect him to be
able to become me in six months he is
his own thing so no like he's not going
to think like me there's no way he's
going to get there for six months is a
like pretty condensed time per 10 years
he's not going to get there he's his own
creative person that's how collabor
ation work but my videos aren't
especially during the daily Vlogs they
weren't
collaborations they were like uniquely
specifically mine I've done
collaborations like Make It Count was a
collaboration like Max Joseph the
greatest editor I know on in the
universe Max's that is Max's style that
edit my idea to run around the world
it's my idea to run left to right it was
my idea to have it be this kinetic
travel movie it was his idea to make it
feel like that that's a collaboration
but the daily Vlog wasn't it was mine so
no it was a very it was a really
expensive learning curve but it wasn't
all bad because the magic of it was Dan
wasn't Dan didn't make the process
easier for me to make but he was my best
friend he is my best friend so I had
endless subject matter CU he's so fun to
be around yes he's so funny and charming
and great so he became this fantastic
character and moreover like I mean we're
grown ass men we don't get to hang
around all day every day with our best
friend doing fun stuff and I got to have
that for like 6 months with him so yeah
it was a it was a really interesting
time yeah 368 can you tell me what's the
status of that what was 368 for people
aren't familiar so 368 is after I left
CNN CNN bought my tech company beam beam
and for 25 million sure and then fired
me like 11 months later um for Myriad
reasons that's another podcast but it
was you know it wasn't such a terrible
thing it was more it just was a round
peg in a square hole sort of thing and
uh after that I was like what am I going
to do next and I opened up a studio
called
368 and I think it was a really smart
business model which was to sort of
build a physical space and then make it
sort of a community where creators could
physically work but also just hang out
and then we could also work with Brands
so we become this sort of inter Med are
between brands that want to work with
creators and creators working in our
space and there's no real physical
manifestation of something like that
everything is virtual by virtue of the
fact that it's YouTube and it would be a
really viable business and I think it
was um what I didn't anticipate was the
fact that you know burnout is real and
eight months after starting it I was
like I'm [__] toast like I'm done and
the difference then versus 5 years prior
is that I had money I did sell my my
company for a lot of money like for the
first time I made money off of my
YouTube videos and brand deals for the
first time in my life like I could
exhale
financially and I was just toast and you
know that's when my wife and I decided
to leave New York to go be with family
in California and when I was leaving I
sort of became clear to me that like
look I can't run this thing from 3,000
miles away and my partner uh in that
company was like look I'd like to run it
on my own and I was like fantas
fantastic um you have my full support um
I even like I gave him 100% of My Equity
cuz I didn't feel like it was fair for
me to retain it if I wasn't willing to
participate which I really wasn't I
wanted to not have to think about it not
have to think about any work I just
wanted to relax um and yeah and I I gave
it to him and I think he did some really
fantastic things there for a handful of
years but ultimately managing a 20,000
ft space and all the cogs that was that
became a lot and when you have a space
that revolves around physical
connectiveness and then you know the
biggest pandemic in 100 years hits which
legally Paul who's my partner Paul got a
number of notices and I want to say like
threatening fines from the state for
having events in there and he did not
have a single Event Event in there until
after the vaccine came out and everyone
was you know following all the
guidelines but even so there some sort
of density limitation and he got notices
for that so it was a Confluence of
myriad factors and you know Paul kept it
going for three years did some really
great things and then you know a year
ago he's like look I just you know um my
girlfriend and I bought a place up town
Upstate rather and want to sort of look
elsewhere and I was like great I think
you've done a fantastic job and I think
you did a fantastic job with it but when
he was done with he sort of done with it
I sure as [__] knew that I was not
willing to take over a company that
required the level of management and
oversight that it did all I want to do
now is be alone in my office which is
the total opposite of what running that
company was but very proud of of what we
did with that company and very proud
very impressed with what Paul was able
to do with 368 yeah um another big
project you took on was the documentary
about David do I mean you put so much
work into that you hired translators to
interview his parents you went back to
Illinois you've interviewed his high
school teachers his coaches um but
you'll back to Slovakia
I mean you you just put so much work
into that documentary but I thought it
was also fascinating I found this quote
where you said I don't think that
documentary will ever see the light of
day at least not on your YouTube channel
um can you tell us like how did you
decide to do that what were the terms
that it took and and why yeah so it was
most it was probably it's probably the
most conflicted thing in my career that
I've ever been that I've ever
experienced and I remained wildly
conflicted about it to this day I was
running this morning with my buddy Oscar
was just finished a feature film and he
was like I'm not sure what festival
we're going to put it in and what
happened to your movie by the way he
asked me today and I thought about today
but the the short of what the movie is
it's a featurelength documentary it's
very formal documentary does it's not a
Youtube video um and I wanted to tell
the
story of what it means to become the
biggest YouTuber in the world and I met
David do when he was really starting out
on YouTube and I think that to this day
um not withstanding the problematic
stuff uh the altic content that he made
um I think he is the greatest comedian
uh that YouTube has ever had the
screaming to the folks at home you're
hearing in the background is across the
street from my office is a Halloween
haunted house no one's being murdered
that interesting timing but David is
just the the comedic timing the
everything about his videos are are
unique and to this day nothing is even
come close to replicating them and I
started documenting him in his growth
and sure enough like you know in the
time I started documenting him he became
like one of the biggest celebrities
YouTube had ever seen he exploded on the
scene and I was so excited to make that
movie um you know the ugly stuff and the
good stuff and I was very
confrontational with him even though
he's my friend and I loved him very much
um you know I never hid from any of the
controversy of who he was and then as
we're finishing that project two really
cataclysmic things happened one of which
was that one of the cast members um
David's videos had a large cast one of
the cast members who had David had
excommunicated from um because he was so
problematic uh it it came out that there
were very very legitimate uh sexual
assault allegations against one of his
cast members um and that's an
oversimplification there were videos
made there was certainly wrongdoing on
Myriad people's uh behalf including
David making a very tongue-and-cheek
video about it even though he didn't
understand the the totality of the
situation it's very complicated but the
short of it is you know there was a bad
guy that was platformed by David
unknowingly that bad guy did really bad
things and David dealt with it very
poorly
um and uh you know I don't never make
excuses for for him or how he dealt with
it but those are the sort of the facts
on the ground and it sort of left me
sitting there being like well I've just
spent the last two and a half years of
my life what do we do now and I remember
talking with my editorial team and it's
like this has to be included but how
much the movie do does this need to be I
remember my editor said to me it's the
whole movie and I think that he's right
he was completely right how do you
possibly tell the story of this person's
rise without you know being abundantly
clear like the the the negative
implications and what can manifest like
what can happen um so that's the movie
that we made and at the time it was very
clear to me that the most responsible
thing I could do was let David speak for
himself um my obviously I'm you know had
a lot of editorial input on it I made
the movie but you don't I don't talk in
the movie you don't see me in the movie
um and I wanted to give David the
greatest opportunity I could to speak
for himself and I you know I don't he
didn't do a good job he didn't do a good
job at all uh you know he
certainly
uh you know there there were a lot of
opportunities for him to really I think
demonstrate a level of understanding and
stuff like that and I I don't know the
reason why too young or huis or mad
other factors but he didn't do a good
job of representing himself and I just
gave him opportunity after their
opportunity and eventually it was like
look this is what it is and we made that
movie and um I think it told the
truth of what happened I mean it was not
my words it was the people in it telling
the truth of what they experienced and
it really shows sort of the Fall the
cataclysmic fall of one of the greatest
biggest creators of our time um
self-inflicted fall uh at the same time
too one of the cast members in his
videos was injured the right to the you
know almost to death was almost killed
while shooting a stunt so David was
facing all this at the same time and
this is while I'm making my documentry
so that's what the story
was and I finished it because I just I
don't I don't I can't not finish
something I think it's important to
finish it and we premiered at South by
Southwest film festival and there was
some talk of selling it to a proper
distributor but I didn't have a lot of
enthusiasm for it and I still don't know
why I don't put it out there I think
it's because maybe some part of me as
much as I'm ashamed to admit it is
because I still like very deeply love
and care for David and maybe it's about
protecting him from his own from
himself um but I also feel
responsibility to the victim who uh you
know I spoke with off the Record and
showed her the movie before a single
person saw it to get her blessing and
understanding and I think that she was
very generous in letting me share her
story and I didn't follow through with
that so I'm extremely conflicted about
it what's your relationship like like
with David do now it's non-existent you
know I think that
um you know when the movie was done I
showed it to him he's not happy with it
um and that's it uh you know I made it
clear to him like if he ever wants to
reach out I'm still the same person and
I'm always here and available but uh
that's that's kind of where things where
things lie yeah
um and then
last what in God's name is happening
outside of my office some sort of
protest come on man I got to get out
there there's a protest outside I mean
we hear a lot of the noise
it's always something in this
city I think that was a
uh some sort of pro Palestine
March they like to go down
Broadway you got to show the love you
know
all
right one more question it's actually
about that okay let's get into it can
you just explain what what happened
there yeah so that was um like a um
anti-israel March going down
Broadway and you know when that happens
I like to wave either my American flag
or an Israeli flag or some combination
of both how do you think about your
platform and speaking out about that
given how polarizing It is Well I think
it's it's challenging and I've never
been one to hold my tongue and I think
it that exasperates for me sort of the
the frustration in speaking out against
anti-Semitism because you know long
before I spoke out against anti-Semitism
I was quick to speak speak out um you
know for pro lgbtq rights and I was very
loud in speaking out um in my support of
African-Americans and why it's important
that uh you know we stand up if there's
a moment in in this country where like
our our
fellow black Americans are feeling like
they're being unfairly treated um I've
never held my tongue so when it becomes
about
anti-Semitism um you know for me it's
it's certainly it's different because I
think everyone only understand is able
to truly understand prejudiceness
through which the lens they experience
it I'm I'm not no idea what it's like I
can imagine but I have no idea what it's
like to be black in a place where
somebody might be judging you because of
the color of your skin I don't know that
um but I know what it's like to be
treated differently because I'm I'm
Jewish um so it's Unique to me and I
feel like I can speak on that in a
different way uh what's really
challenging is that um I I do support
Israel and I love Israel and I've been
there and I love
Israelis um I don't understand Israeli
politics you know I don't I don't if you
say Netanyahu is a bad
guy okay like I I think that we've had
really bad presidents too I think we
have a lot of bad leaders in this
country criticize them if you say I
don't like the way that Israel is is um
Prosecuting a
war I say okay I'm not a general that's
fair I don't like the way that we
marched into Iraq I don't like reading
about the [__] that we did in in in
Vietnam that's fair criticize that
um if you say that Palestinians deserve
dignity and rights and their own country
I say hell yeah they do hell yeah they
do like Palestinians deserve their all
of that um you know one of my labmates
at MIT was from Gaza love the guy but I
also support
Israel and I think what's so complicated
and so frustrating about this
conversation is that you're not allowed
to say that you're not allowed to say
that I want innocent people that live in
Palestine to not be suffering and I want
them to have good lives but I also
believe I don't just believe I'm
convicted in the fact that Israel has
every right to exist and that when
attacked Israel has every right to um to
protect itself and to fight back and
those two things are you're not allowed
to say those two things in the same way
that you're not allowed to say like you
know I think the Democrats are doing
some stupid stuff that I don't
appreciate but I also think that the
Republicans are [__] for doing
stupid stuff that I don't
appreciate um I you know I don't like
the way that the the Democrats handle
some um Criminal Justice Reform because
I think you're letting too many
criminals out I I can say that about the
Democrats I don't like that the
Republicans um the way that they address
uh women's Reproductive Rights I can say
that about both sides but you're not
allowed to say that and you're not
allowed to say that you think that there
are good people in Palestine
and that you support the state of Israel
if I went down there and tried to say
that those people screaming marching
down the street they would not be
receptive to that conversation and that
is really hard it's really hard because
I'm not down there on the street having
this conversation with 20 people um on
the internet saying it to a million
people and it's really hard it's super
hard to to have that conversation and
it's frustrating so it's not hard to
speak up it's hard to try to reconcile
that we can't be civil and have an
honest conversation about such a a
volatile um dangerous personal matter
how how do we start to at least have
that conversation I don't know trying my
best you know I I know for me personally
that I I no longer engage with people
that I don't think are willing to hear I
I know that I'm very open-minded and I'm
willing to hear whatever it is you have
to say matter how much I dis agree with
it I'm willing to hear your argument um
and
sometimes people convince me and I
change my perspective I really do it's
happened a bunch in my life um but you
can usually tell in the first heartbeat
of meeting someone if they're going to
be receptive to hearing being
open-minded and if they're not
immediately walk away otherwise I can
just stand and argue with that door
right there it's not going to help me
it's going to make me angry and
frustrated I won't lose an ounce of
sleep over that if I was realistically
there would probably there would be
violence if I went down there with an
Israeli flag um though they're not I
don't mean to generalize perhaps there
are people down there will be willing to
engage in conversation but in my
experience because I go to a lot of
counter protests there's not there's no
willingness to engage in a conversation
so when that's the case I I walk away oh
I'm I appreciate you speaking up Casey
and I'll give you the final word if
there's any like other thoughts and just
I appreciate just being so open and
talking about so much and I know how
valuable your time is so thanks for
taking the time no this is great yeah
this is fun I mean that was
crazy it's a
helicopter um Welcome to New York City
till next time nice C of course
appreciate you man